Let's make this bigger again, and
we're going to create a new file.
And this time it's gonna
live inside of a directory.
So it's gonna be in the blog directory.
And then to determine or to make something
parameterized we can use square brackets.
And I'm just gonna grab anything and
turn it into .astro.
So the file name is [...slug].astro.
And that is the the dynamic path segment.
So we are gonna visit this at
/blog/ whatever the thing is.
And that gets us to the front matter.
So we're gonna start in here,
we're going to, again,
import that getCollection out of astro.
And then we're gonna
import our layout again.
And I probably could have copy pasted
this part but that's all right.
So this time we are a little bit deeper.
So we're gonna go up two levels and
get the page.
Then, we're gonna export
an async function.
And that async function is going
to be called getStaticPaths.
And what we need to return from
getStaticPaths is an array.
And that array includes
objects with params.
And the params would be
they need to match this,
so we would need a slug and
that's gonna need to be something.
And we're also gonna send back
props which are optional.
But that is an object if
we do decide to send it.
So our job here is to get the blog posts
and turn them into an array of these
objects that have the params and
props that we need.
So up at the top of getStaticPaths,
we're going to grab our
blog posts again in the same way
that we did on the blog homepage.
Grab that blog, okay?
And then here,
instead of just hard coding an array,
we're gonna blogPosts.map and
get the post.
And we're gonna return from each one,
our params and our props.
And I'm gonna get rid of this part so
that it stops yelling at me.
So our params are gonna be an object and
our props are gonna be an object.
And inside of our params
we want the slug so
we can get the post.data.slug.
And for the props,
I can just pass through the whole post.
So now I don't need to individually
load each post because I already loaded
the whole list.
So I can just pass it on down and then
have it available as a prop already when
I'm starting to work with the code itself.
And that means that right here, and this
is the only part that gets a little bit
confusing if you've
never seen this before.
Because we're exporting this,
that means that the props are available.
So right here I can use that
post out of Astro.props.
So this is being fed into Astro.props and
I have it here.
So then I can get the content,
because the only thing I don't get out of
the front matter is
the actual page content.
And the way that Astro handles
that is they give us the post and
a render method, which will give
us the ability to render this out.
I'm not gonna worry about the fact
that this is typed as any.
If you want to, you can import some
special types that will set the prompts to
be the content collection posts and then
you'll get the autocomplete and stuff.
I'm not super worried about it.
I'm close enough to this
one that I don't care.
I would probably change it otherwise.
And I also just realized
that I made an error.
The slug is part of the front matter but
it's a special part of Astro.
So it's slug is post.slug,
it gets hoisted outside of the data.
Because that is a specific piece that
is added for a lot of reasons that
are outside of front matter, we need
it for different functional things.
So they give that right at the top level.
So now that we've got that,
we can start building out our layout.
So as usual,
we wrap the whole thing with a layout.
Let's get the post.data.title.
And then underneath that, in fact,
I'm just gonna copy paste this part out.
This time section here,
cuz it's exactly the same.
So we can drop that in here.
And then I want to show the content.
And I'm not worrying too much
about the overall formatting here.
I'm not showing the post author.
I'm not gonna add a lot of
additional markup here.
That's not really the goal
of what we're after.
I just wanna show how you would get
one of these displayed on page.
And if we reload, a-oh, we got pages.
And if I head back, hit one of these.
And there it goes, and if we add
another one, that'll show up as well.
So it is very straightforward.
And what I like about it is that
it brings in familiar things.
This getStaticPaths is pretty
well-won territory at this point.
Most of the frameworks that have a static
export option do give this general API.
So it's something that you've potentially
used before if you've built with modern
front end frameworks.
And it gives you all the power that
you need to do quite a bit here.
And again, we could do a lot more, right?
We could pre-process this object.
We could make an additional
call out to a third party.
We could try to find related posts.
We could do a bunch of stuff.
Do keep in mind though, one of the things
that gets a little tricky as you start
building these things out is that
this is executed at build time.
So typically what you wanna do is you
wanna minimize the number of API calls
that you're making.
So something like getting
the entire blog collection is good.
Because it's one call,
you load all the data, and
then you can loop over that data and
do things.
If you have hundreds of thousands of
posts, maybe it's not as good, right?
And then you might wanna do something like
just get the first hundred, and then use
dynamic rendering to get the older posts
that don't get as much traffic, right?
So there are some strategies that you
wanna keep in mind as you're using
something that builds
statically by default.
That in a dynamic environment,
you can just ignore.
But you pay the price by having
to maintain your servers.
If you wanna do it on a static build,
you can't ignore it, but it'll get slow.
And so as you start to get to
really high numbers of things, or
really slow queries, like if you're
doing a really intense query
to go through multiple layers of your
API and figure out related posts, or
similarity rankings, or something that
takes a lot of computer processing,
you might wanna start thinking about
how exactly does that get done?
And how are you caching those calls if
the data doesn't change, and so on and so
forth, so that your builds stay fast.
Because one of the major assets here is
because Astro is built the way that it's
built, it's powered by V, the builds
are very, very fast, a second or
less out of the box.
And that means that if we don't
add things to make it slow,
we will be able to publish something
to production in a few seconds.
And that's really really powerful, right?
So you don't wanna break that as you start
getting into more and more complex builds,
question?
>> You don't have to go into this
if it's gonna be too long, but
is there any sort of ISR capabilities for
Astro if you wanted to do it that way?
>> Yes, but
not built in the way it is in next.
So-
>> Just put it behind a CDN.
>> Yeah, what you would is you would
wanna say, put Astro into hybrid mode or
server mode so that the pages
themselves are making a request.
And then you would use a cached
API call with a timeout on it.
It's not like Astro doesn't have a TTL
built into it where you can just say,
I want this page to render
once every five minutes.
But building that with Netlify,
for example,
you can just set a cache
expiry on the API.
It's hitting and
it'll get the same general outcome.
But yeah, not built in.
Probably the biggest thing is
the content is a little bit different.
This is something that what we're
effectively doing here is we're saying
take this markdown file and
render the content of the markdown
into an astro component.
And then we use that Astro component
in the contents of the file.
So the the functional outcome is it just
takes the Markdown and turns it into HTML.
But it's important to note that this is
not HTML, this is an Astro component.
And that's gonna be important
when we talk about the RSS later.